# Notes for October 30, 2018

General Announcements:
* Reminder: Final project submission due this Friday at 6:30pm.
    * Your auto-lander function needs to have well documented logic that is understandable by the TA. This is the first instance where the TA is able to lower the points awarded by the auto-grader. In the past some students have simply returned a random number, or always return the same number. Doing something similar will cost you a lot of points.d
* FYI: When Moodle runs your code the line numbers can get messed up. This is because in order for your code to be tested, some things need to be imported for you, such as the assertEqual function. This is a known issue that the instructors are working on. Some of you were affected by this last week. I meant to bring this to everyone's attention sooner, sorry I did not mention it earlier.
* For the second project you're going to have the user manipulate a lander onto the moon without crashing. 
    * User can set initial values. You will need to make sure input is valid (integers and flots)
    * User can go through multiple attempts, rather than exit at the end
    * Will need to save state to a file
    * Second part of the lab, after the exam, will be plotting the outcomes in Matplotlib
    * We will cover Matplotlib more after the exam. It will not be on the exam.
* Today's Agenda:
    * Incomplete overview of test topics (more complete review Thursday)
    * Common errors I saw while looking at quiz 6
    * Review starter code for file io
    * Create starter code for classes
    * In-class workbook on file io and classes

---

## Topics you will need to know for the test
* The test will have some basic class and File IO questions
    * These are the only topics where the final may have harder questions than what you have seen on the first two exams.
* How to iterate though a list, both by item and by index. 
    * Iterating by index bives you access to the item
    * Remember that you need to know the index in order to edit the item.
        * If you do `for item in my_list` then `item` is a temporary variable that is overwritten every iteration. 
* Be familiar with any of the list and string methods we've used in class or in labs
* My favorite string methods:
    * lower (normalize user input)
    * strip (especially when reading from a file)
    * split (you will need to know this for reading from a file)
    * isnumeric (to test if input is a number)
    * find
    * replace
    * count
    * join
* My favorite list methods:
    * append
    * copy
    * count
    * remove
    * sort


