
# Notes for September 11, 2018

General Announcements:
* Make sure your iClicker is registered.
* I want to appologize for last Thursday's ungraded homework. It was too much too soon, and poorly explained. I created it was to introduce imports and get you to write your own function, both of which we will cover today with much more basic examples.
* Good news for people who are feeling behind: We are currently ahead on the material. Boolean logic is the basis of programming in any language, and lists are one of the most powerful aspects of Python. In hindsight I pushed those topics on you faster than was needed. We'll be slowing down and covering them extensively over the next few weeks. 
* The first test will be on Thursday Oct. 4. This Thursday, Sept. 13, is basically the halfway point. 
* There is a career and internship fair on Thursday from [3:30-6:30pm at the Little Bob](https://www.udel.edu/students/career-services-center/careerfairs/). 
* Reading Assignment Update: I received a handout over the weekend for a function "Design Recipe" that will be used in this class. We will cover it today. Friday's lab is on functions, which we will be covering today and Thursday. You will need to read the handout and some additional material on functions for Thursday. Hold off on finishing the reading on lists for Tuesday.
* I also want to appologize for being all over the place on the readings. We will use everything you have read so far. I was confused about the order of the labs. 
* Topics covered in today's notebook
    * A while loop example
    * Review topics covered so far based on student questions
    * Design Recipe for functions
        * Review function definition and comment blocks
        * Introduction to the ```assert``` statement
    * Imports using the math library
    * Testing if a string is a palindrome using Design Recipes

---

### Binder badges have been added to the top of all notebooks. 

Example: [Class notebook, September 4, 2018](https://github.com/enactdev/CISC_106_F18/blob/master/week_02_sept_04_06/notebook_-_2018_09_04.ipynb)

---

### Note on indentation

As you know by now, Python code uses indentation to structure code. If you need to change the indentation for a large block of code, you can highlight it and press "Tab" to move to the right or "Shift+Tab" to move left. Ask me for an example if I forget.


---

### While loops

A student asked when a while loop should be used, and for some real-world examples. 

A while loop is great when you need to run a block of code an unknown number of times, such as reading in input. This is true whether the input is coming from a user, a file on your computer, or even a file on the internet. I'll give an example today of a while loop to prompt and verify input from a user.

Reminder: An if statement will execute a block of code at most one time

Note: Python treats files as an iterable (```for line in file:```). However, many programming languages including Matlab use while loops (```while not end-of-file:```)

