
# Notes for September 27, 2018

General Announcements:
* Update on Lab 4 that you will start Friday. You will have two weeks for the lab, so it will be due the week after your first test, rather than that evening. 
* There's a factorial problem in this week's lab. Please try to solve on your own without consulting the one we did in class. 
* There's an issue with testing your code in Lab 3 due today. I sent an announcement on Canvas, it's also posted to Piazza.





---

* Regarding the test on Thurs. Oct 4.
 * Test will be taken in class next Thursday.
 * Tuesday will be review. Be prepared to ask questions on things that are giving you trouble. There will be an in-class workbook covering simiilar material as the test, and I'll walk around answering questions.
 * Update on the format. Still two parts, still 25 multiple choice qustions, but each will be worth 3 points, for 75% of the grade.
 * Written will be worth 25% -- partial credit will be given for partially correct answers
 * You will not need to write anything to do with lists, but you will need to answer some multiple choice problems on lists, similar to the in-class examples.
 * Points for the written will be variable, mostly based on difficulty
    * 3 points: Write an if statment based on the provided explanation
    * 8 points: Debug the provided Function Design Recipe. The Docstring comments will be completely correct. Use them to fix the rest of the code (including the assertEqual statements if applicable). There will be 4 things wrong. You'll get 1 point for finding it, 1 point for properly correcting it.
    * 10 point question: Given a description, write a full Function Design Recipe -- 3 points for the Docstring comments, 4 points for the assertEqual statements (you will write 4), and 3 for a working function. (No need to memorize what goes into the Docstring comments, you can refer to the debugging question.)
    * 4 point question: (Hard) Write a while loop to solve a problem. Something similar to Lab 4 parts A & B.


* Everything in class is fair game, especially if you have seen it in labs. However, you will not have taken a lab on lists before the test, so questions on lists for the first test will be more basic. The second test will have more complex list questions on it. The in-class workbooks will be good review for the first test. 
 * For lists, you will definitely need to be able to:
    * Create an empty list
    * Append to a list
    * Iterate through a list
    * Update an individual item in the list (Ex. my_list[0] = 'New Value')
 * You will definitely not need to know:
    * Slicing
    * Tuples

