# Notes for November 15, 2018

General Announcements:
* Some students are using `try` and `except` statements in their projects, specificially in the `is_float()` function. The instructors have not taught this, though some TA's have recommended it. You will get full credit using it for the functions due yesterday, but you will have to write it without try/except for the final submission. 
* Thoughts after meeting with students on Tuesday:
    * Wny I think the weighting was fair: Yes it gave some students who had a lower unweighted score a higher weighted score than others, but it rewarded people who were consistent. Students who jumped the most were able to answer questions amoung all the different sections, but bombed one question from each.
    * But, I acknowledge that students would have approached the test differently knowing how it would be weighted. I swear, I didn't know how it would be weighted either, but I understand the point.
    * It was also pointed out that at the beginning of the semester I said students who did increasingly better each test would end up doing well, and with this second test basically no one was able to do better. Good point. I don't have a resolution yet, and might not end up with one, but I'm thinking it through.
* Today's Agenda:
    * iClicker survey
    * Accessing the VPN when you're off campus:
        * Acquiring a 2FA code without Google Authenticator (see below)
    * Quick review on functions and while loops (see below)
    * Using Octave in notebooks if you are on Anaconda (see below)
    * Quick overview of Matplot lib and how to use it in a notebook
    * Matlab vs. Python cheatsheet
    * Let's write some Matlab code (in Octave)

---

---

# Acquiring a 2FA code without Google Authenticator

I was able to set up VPN access off campus using this guide:
* Access [help guide here](https://www1.udel.edu/it/help/connecting/vpn/usage2fanoga.html).

---

---

## Quick review on functions and while loops

Functions are done when they hit a return statement. Thus, within a function, it is ok to setup what would otherwise be an infinte loop. (You could also do this outside of a function with a `break` statement instead of a `return` statement, but I don't.)

```
def get_something_anything():
    while True:
        user_input = input('Type something. Litereally, just type anything: ')
        if user_input != '':
            return user_input
```

---

---


## Using Octave in notebooks if you are on Anaconda

You can [install this to Anaconda](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/octave_kernel) to run Octave. The instructions say to run the command:

```
conda install -c conda-forge octave_kernel
```

But it's a bit more complicated. 

First here are the steps to make "Octave" an option in your Jupyter notebook instance:
* Open Anaconda
* Click 'Environments'
* Click the play button
* Click 'Open Terminal'
* Copy and paste the above command 
* Type 'y' when prompted

## Update Nov. 25

To install Octave with Anaconda so you can create Octave notebooks, run this command:

```
conda install -c conda-forge octave
```

## The following *only* installs Octave as a stand-alone application (similar to the Matlab application).

Step two is to [install Ocatave](https://www.gnu.org/software/octave/download.html). There is a handy (easy) installer if you're on Windows. I assume it works fine. More instructions below. Note: If these instructions are insuficient for Windows and you figure out what else needs to occur, please email me and I'll update instructions here.

On a Mac:
* The install page [sends you to their Wiki](https://wiki.octave.org/Octave_for_macOS). 
* I used the link: "Octave 4.0.3 with graphical user interface (OS X 10.9+)"
* You'll probably have to update your security settings
    * Go to Settings => Security & Privacy
    * "General" tab
    * If the settings are locked, click the lock icon on the lower left to unlock
    * For the setting "Allow apps downloaded from:" select "Anywhere"
    * Relock if you want

Windows & Mac:
* Close your Jupyter notebook server if you have one running.
* Launch the Octave application
* Follow whatver set up things are required for Octave
* This Octave window looks similar to the Matlab window that I have seen
