# Notes for November 27, 2018

General Announcements:
* I will address questions regarding the project that is due. Take a look on your laptop before putting it away and write down any questions you have.
* I have not gotten Octave working in a notebook in OSX. (Has anybody here?)
* As such, I do not recommend spending time trying. 
* I am 90% certain that you can do everything you need in this class if you download Octave. I will be atempting to only use Octave myself. I will complete Lab 7 myself by Thursday, and will know by then if you can stick with just Octave. You can definitely do everything in Matlab.
* Lab 7 is active now. It is all Octave/Matlab. It is due next Thursday Dec. 6 at 11:59pm. Today's lesson will help you get started. 
    * Warning: The lab is long. I suggest starting it and getting through question 10 before Thursday's class. 
    * The lab is also worth 55 points. Much more than most other labs. It's practically a mini-mini-project. 
    * The lab links to Matlab videos that you can watch if you need a review, and an Intro to Matlab PDF that you definitley need to download and refer to. 
* Upcoming:
    * Thursday will cover more Matlab, and we'll get into some more interesting uses
    * Next Tuesday will have even more Matlab, and I should have a general idea of what the final will look like
    * Next Thursday will be a review for the final, and *may* need to cover more Matlab. At the very least, be prepared to ask questions about the lab due that night.
* Today's Agenda:
    * Two iClicker questions, review these for the final
    * Questions regarding the project.
    * Octave/Matlab from the top. We will review everything we saw before break (but in a new notebook)
    * This is enough to get you through the first 10 questions of the lab (and probably more)
    * Time willing we will look at a Hackerank question.
