
# Notes for September 4, 2018

General Announcements:
* I've added readings for next Tuesday Sept. 11, and also Tuesday Sept. 18. Both are still in progress. The chapter on lists for the 11th is long, and there are other readings in there too. The reading for the 11th is the longest so far.
* I still have not gotten the iClickers working yet, am meeting with someone tomorrow to get them set up. I swear it will not be a waste of money.
* Topics covered in today's notebook (some of this might be moved to Thursday's lecture if we run out of time).
    * Revisit the round() function from Tuesday to learn somethng new about lists
    * Scope! I will explain the easiest way to not worry about scope, and explain the error from today's reading
    * Strings:
        * Using the multiply statement with a string
        * Some special characters in strings, which will be a part of Friday's lab
    * Introduction to while loops, and a while loop recipe
    * Importing libraries
    * Hackerrank example: Capitalize!
* Questions on the reading? Did you find the examples of common problems useful?

---

### Pro Tip: GitHub has a view-only mode for notebooks. Example, [Indexing_Starts_at_0](https://github.com/enactdev/CISC_106_F18/blob/master/week_01_aug_28_30/Indexing_Starts_at_0.ipynb). Note: GitHub displays the state the notebook was in when it was uploaded to GitHub. Generally, people want share what they did, so most notebooks includes the results. However, some notebooks are meant to be downloaded and run by the user, so those will be blank. 

---

### Note on the original textbook.

When I skimmed the textbook this summer I thought it looked good. Once I started reading it this fall I realized the explainations were often confusing. I'm sure we'll use that book again, but for now we're using some other resources. Everything you are expected to read will be listed in Canvas under Assignments -> Reading.

---

### Note on naming convensions.

I am going to backtrack here. Last week I said you could use underscore_naming_convension or CamelCase (also called CapWords) at your preference. That is no longer true. I will be following [PEP 8 -- Style Guide for Python Code](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/). Do not read the whole thing, it will not make sense yet. I have cut and pasted what you need to worry about for now:

**Function and Variable Names**
*Function names should be lowercase, with words separated by underscores as necessary to improve readability.
*Variable names follow the same convention as function names.

**Class Names**
*Class names should normally use the CapWords convention.

We have not covered classes yet, we will toward the end of September. So for now, only use the underscore_naming_convension.

---

### Notes on the reading.

I really like this from "Automate the Boring Stuff with Python" in [Chapter 2 - Flow Control](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/chapter2/) under "Program Execution": 

> Not all programs execute by simply going straight down, however. If you use your finger to trace through a program with flow control statements, you’ll likely find yourself jumping around the source code based on conditions, and you’ll probably skip entire clauses.

When reading code you should constantly be thinking: "Under what conditions will this code run?"

When writing code you should be constantly asking yourself, "But what if..." 

The code we're creating is still short and straightforward, but keep this in mind as the programs we write get longer and more complex.

---
