# Notes for December 6, 2018

General Announcements:
* Reminder that the final lab is due tonight night at 11:59pm, and last 3 problems (25,26 & 27) are optional. That material will not be on the final. 
* Final quiz is due Friday night at 11:59pm.
* I have the previous exams with me, can hand out to anyone who has not picked theirs up yet.
* Contrary to the schedule, I will not be able to teach this spring. I just accepted a job with the Philadelphia Inquirer as a Senior News Developer.
* Instructors are aware there is a lot of grading left (labs, projects) and are working on it.
* GitHub sometimes shows an error, but works when refreshing the page. (Other than the week that none were loading.) For Python notebooks, you can also load it in Binder by clicking on the Binder link on the root GitHub page and navigating to the notebook you want. 

* Try/except
    * Every student solution I saw was based on the first Google search result for "python is_float conversion"
    * Can anyone explain what "ValueError" means? 
    * In programming, this is also referred to as "try/catch", and this example is not catching the error. Slightly better:

```
def isfloat(value):
  try:
    float(value)
    return True
  except Exception as e:
    print('Error:', e)
    return False

print('isfloat(\'3.14\'):', isfloat('3.14'))
print('isfloat(\'3..14\'):', isfloat('3..14'))
```

* Take your Python programming to the next level:
    * If you want to understand web publishing, [learn Django. Great tutorials](https://www.djangoproject.com/start/), explains what happens when you make a web request. This is what I was thinking of getting into when I gave that super-hard non-graded homework assignment. Should be a pretty easy install if you already have Anaconda working.
    * If you want to get into data anlytics, you can take a free course on edX from Georgia Tech, [Computing for Data Analysis](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-computing-for-data-analysis).  You can get through the early stuff very easily with what you already know, but it will get harder very fast.
    * Other ideas?

* MATLAB resrouces:
    * Coursera course: [Introduction to Programming with MATLAB](https://www.coursera.org/learn/matlab/home/welcome)

* Final
    * Barely starting to take shape. Like the first test, it will be 75% mutiple choice and 25% written. Though it will obviously be harder than the final. No notes allowed. 
    * Points will be a roughly 50-50 split between Python and MATLAB
    * Python will only be on the multiple choice
    * For Python, focus on the first exam, and Exam 2 short answer (#1-15). I'll cover additional Thursday.
    * For MATLAB, the written will be similar to lab questions
    * Python
        * Know that input() always returns a string, and that file i/o deals with strings (need to convert from string when reading from a file, just like reading from input(), and need to convert to a string before writing).
        * 
    * MATLAB
        * Know how to create an array (1-row matrix) with MATLAB's version of slicing (x = 1:1:6)
        * I liked the Design Recipe (function with docstring and assertEqual statemetns) problem from the first exam. Exepct to see something similar on final, but in MATLAB.
    * Both (comparing) 
        * Be able to use Python's range() function similar to MATLAB array creation ("range(1, 7, 1)" is equivelant of "1:1:6")
        * Note above means you need to understand how start/stop/step works in both


* Today's Agenda:
    * iClicker questions, Python review
    * Finish going through Professor Wassil's slides
    * I'll cover try/except, explain why I don't like the usage I've seen so far, and show how to do it better (5-10 minutes, not on final)
    * I'll provide some next-step resources for anyone who wants to continue programming (5ish minutes)
    * There will be more MATLAB iClicker examples, and I will cover my favorite Python multiple choice examples
    * We'll go through any important MATLAB stuff that we do not get to today
    * I'll cover any MATLAB issues that come up between today and Thursday, and answer any questions
    * I'll go through what I consider to be the most important Python concepts
    * Will address any other questions
