

General Announcements:
* You can go to any TA for CISC 106, not just the ones "assigned" to this section. Hundreds of students are taking this course right now, so there are a lot of TAs and a lot of office hours. I think it's still being worked out, I'll get the schedule soon.
* There are also "Peer Assisted Study Sessions (PASS)" for this course. Learn more on Piazza under the post "Need Extra Help?" 
* There was a question about this class being easier in November, and I wanted to clarify that it will still be time intensive. You'll be doing things you've already done, but a little differently. Once you understand the logic of programming it is much easier to apply to a new language. 
* Someone asked about remembering all the function names from The Python Standard Library, and the answer is no, you don't have to memorize them all. I just wanted you be aware of them. You only need to know the ones that have been posted in the Canvas readings. 
* I have not finished the full semester schedule yet. I said it would be done today, it's not, and I'm sorry. Next week's schedule is done though, and we'll go over it at the end of class. 


---
### Kernels and the numbering system in Python Notebooks
I want to expand on questions from Tuesday regarding kernels and revist the question about `In` and `Out`. 

I'm simplifying here, but a kernel is what interprets and executes computer code. You experience kernels all around you. You phone's operating system (iOS or Android), is basically a kernel that executes your apps. The apps can be kernels. When you go to a website, the browser is a kernel that executes Javascript. A Python Notebook is running a kernel that is executing the Python you write.

The current state of the kernel is based on running the numbers in order. The word 'state' here is a new term for most of you, and I'll be hammering on it during this course. The state represents everything you have loaded into your program, including outside code and variables you declare. Don't worry too much if the idea of your program's state is hazy right now. We will be revisiting it again and again, and a month from now it will make more sense.

The notebook's 'Kernel' tab lets you reset everything and start over. 

---
### Python in an OSX Terminal

OSX comes with Python installed. The catch is that it is Python 2. Do not use this for class, but it's a great calculator.

---
### Review of the textbook
This is from chapter 2.4: "If you ask Python to evaluate a variable, it will produce the value that is currently linked to the variable. In other words, evaluating a variable will give you the value that is referred to by the variable."



---
### The Python Standard Library is tough

bool() is the most important function you need to learn that I have never called directly. It gets called for you in conditional statements, such as `if`. 

Fun fact: The definition of bool() includes a conditional statement: " If x is false or omitted, this returns `False`; otherwise it returns `True`."

```
class bool([x])

    Return a Boolean value, i.e. one of `True` or `False`. x is converted using the [standard truth testing procedure](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#truth). If x is false or omitted, this returns `False`; otherwise it returns `True`. The bool class is a subclass of int (see Numeric Types — int, float, complex). It cannot be subclassed further. Its only instances are `False` and `True` (see [Boolean Values](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#bltin-boolean-values)).

    Changed in version 3.7: x is now a positional-only parameter.
```

The important part of this is the standard truth testing procedure. We'll cover that in today's notebook.

```
class list([iterable])

    Rather than being a function, list is actually a mutable sequence type, as documented in Lists and Sequence Types — list, tuple, range.
```

Mutable is probably a new word. It means you can change it. Tuples and ranges are immutable, so you can not change them.

