# Notes for October 25, 2018

General Announcements:
* Test 2 postponed, new date one week later: Thursday November 8. Test will occur during regularly scheduled class time. 
* Reminder that you have both a lab and part 2 of the first project due tonight.
* There may be an issue with the quiz that is due tomorrow. I'm waiting to find out more info.
* There have been some complaints regarding office hours. Some students are hogging the attention of the TA's, while other students wait to be seen. We are talking to the TA's about this, and will tell them to place a limit on how much attention someone gets if there is a line forming. 
* Friday's lab session will be on lists and strings. We will go over some things you need to know today.
    * The lab has two parts. The first part is a quiz-like lab where you have to enter short code segments. 
    * The second part is longer where you have to write 8 functions, you get to pick out of 12 offered.
    * I think all 12 are good practice for the next exam.  
    * Especially #21: has_duplicates(), #23: count_evens_NxN(), #24: diagonal_diff, #25: round_list()
    * # 25 is a recursion problem. The hardest problem on the test, probably worth 5 points, will be a recursion problem. 
* Terminology: I keep calling things a "2-d list" and elsewhere (like tomorrow's lab) they are called a "nested list" or "list of lists
    * I will start calling them nested lists.
    * But, remember these are all the same thing. MatLab calls them matrices (the "Mat" in "MatLab"). 
* Today's Agenda:
    * List slicing and the range() function. 
        * Remember that slicing a list returns a new list
    * Some more list problems, including 2-d lists
    * Hopefully finish the ShoppingList class we started Tuesday, otherwise that will be pushed to next week

---

## Suggestions for finishing the project
* Do not put "crash" or "success" in any text output other than the end. This is messing up the auto-grader.
* One of the most common errors is not updating the speed correctly. Run it and verify the velocity is correct as you go. Professor Roosen calls this a "human sanity check." 
* Off-topic: If you're wondering why strength is an "inital" value when it doesn't change, the original version of this problem had the lander pass through an acidic atmosphere that decreased its strength. 
