
# Notes for September 18, 2018

General Announcements:
* Tests -- Dates posted in Canvas:
  * First test Thursday Oct. 4
  * Second test Thursday Nov. 1
  * Final TBD
  * Test format -- half scan tron, half written. 
  * Scan tron witll be either 20 questions worth 2.5 each or 25 questions worth 2 each.
  * Written details TBD
* I made the second one on Nov. 1 due to the election and Thanksgiving. There is no class on Nov. 6, nor Thanksgiving week. The last class, on Thursday Dec. 6, will be a review day for the final. That leaves only 3 weeks for Matlab.
* Be aware of this on Piazza, this info included in the Office Hours page on Canvas: "We are fortunate to have a Peer Assisted Study Sessions (PASS) program this semester for this course. These sessions are optional but strongly recommended. Our PASS leader is a student named Hunter Suchyj.  He will be holding these sessions every week on Wednesdays at 5:30pm and Thursdays at 6:00pm.  (Location Sharp Lab - Room 105.)"
* Note on attendence: The two lowest attendance "grades" are dropped, which means you can miss two classes without penalty. Excused absenses are not counted in the final attendance "grade." If you only miss one or two I don't need notes, if you think you'll miss more than two then get proper documentation, unless already cleared with me. 
* Overall I like "Automate the Boring Stuff with Python," but it's hard to navigate the chapters as one long page. [So, I made section links](https://github.com/enactdev/CISC_106_F18/blob/master/automate_book_links/links.md). Over the course of this class, we will cover the contents from Chatpers 1-6, 8, 10, and maybe 14. 
* The script I wrote is available if you're curious. 




---

### Know your truth tables!

From [atbswp Chapter 2](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/chapter2/#calibre_link-1905)


---

### You have the power to decide what should be true or false in an if statement, and can pick what goes first. We'll go over this in today's notebook:

Example

```
>>> cisc_106 = 'fun'
>>> cisc_106 == 'fun'
True
>>> cisc_106 != 'fun'
False
>>> if cisc_106 == 'fun':
...     print ('This class is fun')
... else:
...     print ('This class is not fun')
... 
This class is fun
>>> if cisc_106 != 'fun':
...     print ('This class is not fun')
... else:
...     print ('This class is fun')
... 
This class is fun

```

Generally, I will decide which to use based on the length of the blocks of code. I try to put the short block of code at the top. Example in today's workbook.


---

### Note on if statements -- You can use multiple in a row, and also embed within an if statement. 

---

