
# Notes for September 20, 2018

General Announcements:

* Note on the workbook you'll work on today.
 * I like the general difficulty of this workbook. Consider it test-prep, though the test will have harder questions. Next Thursday we'll do another in-class workbook that will have harder qustions. (It will also include lots of questions on lists, which we will cover next week.)
 * The workbook includes some starter code that you will finish. The test will include questions like that.
* Regarding tomorrow's lab
 * The lab uses the term "numeric." That can be either an int or a float. However, note that the string method isnumeric() returns false for floats because of the decimal. It only returns true if every element is a digit. You'll use the isnumeric() method in today's workbook.
 * One of the lab questions is basically the function we did at the end of Tuesday, which you'll continue in the workbook. Try to recreate it without looking at what we did in class.
 * Tomorrow you'll write functions, and then write a function that calls those function. This is similar to today's workbook. This is setting up the stage for what we'll do after the first test, when you'll be writing scripts that have lots of interworking pieces. 
 






---

### Follow up on precedence table from ["How To Think Like a Computer Scientist" Appendix](http://interactivepython.org/runestone/static/CS152f17/Appendices/PrecedenceTable.html)


Look at where ```not``` is in the table. We haven't used it much. We will start. Next week we'll use the ```in``` operator when using lists, as well as ```not in```. We will not be using ```is``` in this class. Note: ```in``` and ```not in``` are basically comparison operators for lists, just like < and > are comparison operators for numbers.


---

### Notes on the Quiz

Reminder, it's due tonight, closes at midnight. You need to be on UD's computer network to complete it, so you're fine in your dorm, but if you're off campus you will need to log in to the VPN, which everyone should have set up in week 1. 

I liked these questions:
 * #2, on valid variable names. I'll probably do something similar on the test. However, even though having a variable name starting with an underscore ( '_' ) is valid, do not do it. I will not use that as an example on the test, and if you start a variable with an underscore in the written part I will take a point off. Variables starting with an underscore have a special meaning, and nothing on the test needs it.
 * I like #3, and you will need to know how to use the type() function for the test. (and int(), float(), str())
 * I like #4. In addition to asking you to add parenthesis, I will probably have something like this where I ask you to solve it. You will be given a piece of scratch paper for the test.
 * I like #6, with variables changing values, but this example is way too easy.


---

### Notes on labs



